Blacksmith

You are a skilled craftsman. Your team depends on you for weapons and armor made of the finest metal in the world. You are responsible for creating these weapons, but also providing backups in battle. If needed, you can also go mining to gather additional ores. You should also assist the captain with crafting sailboats.

Buffs
You spawn with an anvil and a smithing table
You can use a blast furnace/anvil
You can craft higher tier items (netherite, dragonsteel, dragonseeker)
Debuffs
You move slower than the rest of your team

Captain

You are the captain of the ship. You must delegate the team about expeditions and fights. As the captain, you must be the first one in a fight, and the last one out. You are also responsible for maintaining and steering ships.

Buffs
You deal more damage
Spawn with telescope, clock, and compass
Debuffs

Dragonborn

You were born with the blood of dragons. Your destiny is to kill dragons and take their soul.

Buffs
Much more damage on dragons
Take less damage from dragons
You can use dragonseekers
Natural resistance to knockback
You gain absorption after killing a dragon
Debuffs
You lose hunger faster
Slower mining speeds
Deal very little knockback
Can’t wear light armor
Can only sleep on yellow beds (it looks like gold)

Farmer

You are responsible for farming crops and cattle. You must provide food and water to the rest of your team. Make sure you have a good supply going into battle.

Buffs
You spawn with a hoe
Can harvest crops
Resistant to hunger effects
You do significantly more damage with a hoe
You can get more yield from crops
More meat from killing animals
Crops grow fast-er
Crops planted grow faster
harvested/cooked food are more effective

Debuffs
You are slower on foot but faster on horse
Lower overall health

Wiccan
You are responsible for keeping your team healthy by crafting potions/ other necessities for keeping your team alive and providing support in battles. You are a Wiccan as well, you have the ability to enchant items for your team. When going into battle, you are not going to be on the frontlines but rather assisting your team from the back lines. 

Buffs
Have an extra heart of hp
Have extra inventory space for potions/ have potions stack
Able to enchant
Can harvest crops
Spawn w bow and 10 regeneration/healing arrows
See other players health/ see where on a map team is
Debuffs
Very weak when attacking mobs
Hunger drains faster
Cannot wear heavy armor
Doesn't eat meat
Spawns in nether (from race blazeborn)

Knight

Buffs
Spawn with sword and shield
More melee damage
You take less damage
Heavy armor is more effective
3 More Hearts
Debuffs
Slower movement speed
Eat more food

Miner

You are accustomed to the darkness of the caves. You are responsible for mining the precious gems and metals from the earth for your team. You enjoy shiny rocks. You are deathly afraid of kangaroos.

Buffs
Spawn with pickaxe
You deal more damage while holding a pickaxe/battle hammer
You gain night vision inside caves
Debuffs
You don't like vegetables
You deal less damage with regular weapons

Ranger

 Your job is to explore, hunt, gather, fight from range, and spy? Nature is your friend, you are an expert tracker and hunter. You have lived among the forests and know your way around them. You have lived your life in a fit and dietary lifestyle so you can always be ready for a run or a fight   
Buffs
Spawn with long bow and 25 arrows, atlas
Range weapons do extra damage
You jump better
Run faster in forest biomes and plain biomes 
Gain extra hunger
Extra drops from passive mobs like cows etc
Debuffs 
Can not wear heavy armor
More susceptible to melee attacks
Deal less melee damage 

Race - drake the drake is a small dragon type creature who is fast and agile

Buffs
Can shoot fire charges or start fire with click 
Can not burn 
Start with "claws" (unarmed attacked better)
Better dark vision
3 extra hearts
Swim faster in lava 
 Debuffs
Gain poison when in water
Can not wear armor
Potions have mixed effects (dragon liver)
Gains blind on solid gold
Spawns in nether
only eats meat

Tinkerer

You have a knack for inventing and making mechanical machines. You are responsible for making innovative mechanisms to help your team and improve the settlement. You have a strong sense of item organization.

Buffs
You need less hunger
Debuffs
You can't sleep, (power naps only)


Big Mods
Ice and Fire
Alex’s Mobs
Astral Sorcery
Create mod
Botania
Farmer’s Delight
Bewitchment
